feat: add sop for StrimziOperatorContainerFrequentlyRestarting (#31)
bf2fc6cc711aee1a0c2a/cos-tools: observability/sops/alerts/strimzi_operator_container_frequently_restarting.adoc

// begin header
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:numbered:
:toc: macro
:toc-title: pass:[<b>Table of Contents</b>]
// end header
= Strimzi Operator Container Frequently Restarting

toc::[]

== Description

The purpose of this SOP is to describe the process of resolving the alert `StrimziOperatorContainerFrequentlyRestarting`.

// Include the following step in every alert SOP, changing required parts
The source of the alert is the `kube_pod_container_status_restarts_total` related to the `strimzi-cluster-operator` container.
It fires when the increase in the time series in the range vector is greater than 3 in the last hour: `increase(kube_pod_container_status_restarts_total{container="strimzi-cluster-operator"}[1h]) > 3`

> When this alert triggers it means that in the past hour, strimzi operator has been restarted more that 3 times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this alert triggers it means that in the past hour the Strimzi operator has been restarted more than 3 times.
```

> There may be a number of reason for this alert to be fired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There may be a number of reasons for this alert to be fired.
```

== Prerequisites

// Include the following steps in every alert SOP
* Access to the OSD cluster via either Kafka_SRE IDP or Backplane.
* Permission to run managed scripts on the cluster.
* The ID of the affected OSD. This is provided by the alert via a label. It should look something like this: `cluster_id = rhoc-stage`.

== Execute/Resolution

// Include this as the first step in every alert SOP
. Log in to the OSD cluster that generated the alert. You can identify the cluster by looking at the field `Source` in the alert.

. The *redhat-openshift-connectors-observability / Strimzi Operators* Grafana dashboard can help you to troubleshoot the issue.

> . Identify the reason why the Strimg Operator keep restarting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Identify the reason why the Strimzi Operator keeps restarting.
```

. If the alert is not resolved move to the Troubleshooting section below.
. If a workaround is applied, open an issue for further investigations.

== Validate

What steps are required to verify that the procedure has been followed correctly and the required changes have been implemented correctly, with the desired outcome.

. Check the alert is no longer firing.

> . Check the dashboard are shows a regression of Failed Reconciliations per Hour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the dashboard shows a regression of Failed Reconciliations per hour.
```

== Troubleshooting

> * Check how may time the strimzi-cluster-operator has been restarted, es example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check how may times the strimzi-cluster-operator has been restarted, es example:
```

14m         Normal    InstallSucceeded     clusterserviceversion/strimzi-kafka-operator.v0.28.0    waiting for install components to report healthy
14m         Normal    InstallWaiting       clusterserviceversion/strimzi-kafka-operator.v0.28.0    installing: waiting for deployment strimzi-cluster-operator to become ready: deployment "strimzi-cluster-operator" not available: Deployment does not have minimum availability.
14m         Normal    InstallSucceeded     clusterserviceversion/strimzi-kafka-operator.v0.28.0    install strategy completed with no errors
14m         Warning   ComponentUnhealthy   clusterserviceversion/strimzi-kafka-operator.v0.28.0    installing: waiting for deployment strimzi-cluster-operator to become ready: deployment "strimzi-cluster-operator" not available: Deployment does not have minimum availability.
14m         Normal    NeedsReinstall       clusterserviceversion/strimzi-kafka-operator.v0.28.0    installing: waiting for deployment strimzi-cluster-operator to become ready: deployment "strimzi-cluster-operator" not available: Deployment does not have minimum availability.
----
+

> In this case, the operator get restarted because of the liveness probe fails

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the operator got restarted because of the liveness probe failed.
```

> * In case the operator get restarted because of the liveness probe fails, check the logs of the strimzi operator POD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In this case, check the logs of the Strimzi operator pod.
```

strimzi-cluster-operator-6ddcb45f47-2jpp2 strimzi-cluster-operator 	at io.netty.util.concurrent.SingleThreadEventExecutor.runAllTasks(SingleThreadEventExecutor.java:469) ~[io.netty.netty-common-4.1.71.Final.jar:4.1.71.Final]
strimzi-cluster-operator-6ddcb45f47-2jpp2 strimzi-cluster-operator 	at io.netty.channel.nio.NioEventLoop.run(NioEventLoop.java:503) ~[io.netty.netty-transport-4.1.71.Final.jar:4.1.71.Final]
strimzi-cluster-operator-6ddcb45f47-2jpp2 strimzi-cluster-operator 	at io.netty.util.concurrent.SingleThreadEventExecutor$4.run(SingleThreadEventExecutor.java:986) ~[io.netty.netty-common-4.1.71.Final.jar:4.1.71.Final]
strimzi-cluster-operator-6ddcb45f47-2jpp2 strimzi-cluster-operator 	at io.netty.util.internal.ThreadExecutorMap$2.run(ThreadExecutorMap.java:74) ~[io.netty.netty-common-4.1.71.Final.jar:4.1.71.Final]
strimzi-cluster-operator-6ddcb45f47-2jpp2 strimzi-cluster-operator 	at io.netty.util.concurrent.FastThreadLocalRunnable.run(FastThreadLocalRunnable.java:30) ~[io.netty.netty-common-4.1.71.Final.jar:4.1.71.Final]
strimzi-cluster-operator-6ddcb45f47-2jpp2 strimzi-cluster-operator 	at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:829) ~[?:?]
I
----
+

> In case yu see something like `Thread blocked` as above, then the reason is likely related to GC taking too much time to perform its taska hence, the issue may be related to memory limits being too low.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you see something like `Thread blocked` as above, then the reason is likely related to garbage collection taking too much time to perform its task. Hence, the issue may be related to memory limits being too low.
```

+

> This can be confirmed by looking at the various jvm entries in prometheus/grapahana, as example, you may get entries like the ones below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be confirmed by looking at the various JVM entries in Prometheus/Grafana. For example, you may get entries like the ones below:
```

[source]
----
action="end of major GC", cause="Metadata GC Threshold", container="strimzi-cluster-operator", endpoint="http", instance="10.131.0.67:8080", job="redhat-openshift-connectors-observability/strimzi-metrics", namespace="redhat-openshift-connectors", pod="strimzi-cluster-operator-6ddcb45f47-2jpp2"
action="end of minor GC", cause="Allocation Failure", container="strimzi-cluster-operator", endpoint="http", instance="10.131.0.67:8080", job="redhat-openshift-connectors-observability/strimzi-metrics", namespace="redhat-openshift-connectors", pod="strimzi-cluster-operator-6ddcb45f47-2jpp2"
----

> * As workaround, the limits of the strimzi operator can be temporarly changed by changing them in the operator's CSV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* As workaround, the limits of the Strimzi operator can be temporarly changed in the operator's CSV (ClusterServiceVersion)
```

// Include the following step in every alert SOP
* If the above hasn't worked contact engineering:

> ** Use the Managed Connectors Service Gchat channel during business hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Use the `MAS - Connectors` Google Chat channel during business hours.
```
